So how do Web sites work.
Now I have an entire web development course.
So because this is a Python course we're not going to go super super deep into this topic.
Instead we're going to focus on the Python side of things.
But I do want to help you understand what we're building and how everything works because hopefully
by the end of this course you're able to actually change your portfolio update your portfolio to your
own liking and showcase the projects that we've built throughout the course so I have a Web site for
you.
Here we have x k C.D. which is just a little funny comic Web site if I click refresh here or enter this
U.R.L. I'm taken to this Web site.
But how does this actually work.
How is my browser in this case Google Chrome able to display this web page for me.
I need to be connected to the Internet right.
So there's some sort of data that's being transferred for me to be able to see this.
So let's explore how this works.
And look at that I created a nice little diagram for you and in this diagram I'm going to attempt to
just tell you exactly how it works.
It's quite simple.
We have our browser right here which can be Google Chrome it could be safari could be Firefox.
It doesn't matter this browser.
We're able to type into it a Web site or maybe google for a Web site and then click on a Web site when
we click on a Web site.
What happens is that through internet the browser makes a request all the way to another machine and
this machine which we call a server is located anywhere in the world.
It doesn't really matter because through our internet network the browser is going to say hey this Web
site.
Who owns that Web site or which machine can serve me the files for that Web site and using some complex
logic.
It's going to find this server which at the end of the day is just a computer.
And we're actually going to show you and deploy our own server.
Well it simply says hey give me some data because without data I'm not able to display anything on a
web page.
And the server.
Well first of all they communicate over something called a CTP and a.
S because the browser and the server are two different machines.
Right.
The browser is on my laptop right now and the machine which is a server it can be anywhere in the world
they need to communicate some way.
And we need a rule to say you know we don't want all these machines talking to each other with no rules
in place.
For example we can agree that when we communicate between you and I I'm going to speak in English in
the same way a GDP and a GDP yes which is a secured encrypted version of communication allows me to
say hey can you give me the data and the server to understand oh this Web site or this browser needs
the data that I have if I go back to this Web site over here you see that I'm using a G.P.S. and it's
saying I want to use the HECS protocol.
That is the language to communicate that I want to go to this Web site.
So as soon as I hit enter it's going to make that request all the way to a server somewhere and then
the server is going to respond with this data let's continue with our diagram so the request has just
been made.
This server just happens to have three files that we need.
One is an HCM Mal file and this file is the text or content of the Web site.
The other one is the C assess file and this contains all the styling of the Web site.
So that is colors maybe some fonts maybe the position of the elements.
Anything to do with style.
So doesn't look like a boring piece of text.
And then we have Javascript javascript is what gives Web sites behavior.
When I log into Facebook or maybe tweet something on Twitter javascript is allowing me to perform those
actions because with just a shemale and CSX we just have text and some pretty styling with JavaScript
we're able to take actions but we don't need to focus on that too much.
All we need to know is that this server because it's a computer on its files has these three files for
us and these three files what happened gets sent to the browser because the browser was really really
kind and asked hey can you give me data and the server says Sure.
Here it is and sends us these three files in these three files when they get sent back.
The browser understands them and because it understands them even though to us it may look like gibberish
it's able to display that Web site for us.
But let me ask you a question.
Up until now I haven't really talked about Python.
I thought this was a Python course Andre.
Were you telling me all this stuff that I don't care about.
Well because in here there's one piece that can actually be written in Python.
Can you guess what that is.
If you guessed the server congratulations you get five thousand points.
You see the browser is something that while it's an application we download on our computer.
Right but up until now the server was kind of a mystery box a machine a computer somewhere but Python
programmers can actually write the logic and the rules that servers can act upon.
So all this communication of Hey can you give me data can be interpreted in Python and then send this
data to the browser using Python and we're going to build our own server over the next couple of videos
but also touch upon these HMRC SS and JavaScript files so we can actually display something like a Web
site.
Now I want to finish off this video with one question.
Do you think that this server has to be written in Python.
What do you think.
No it doesn't.
Right.
The browser doesn't care what this machine is like.
All it cares about is these three files and because we're speaking in this HDP HDP as protocol the browser
says hey I don't care what language you speak.
I don't care anything.
I'm just going to tell you through this AC G.P.S. just give me the data that I want and we can do whatever
logic we want in here I can send e-mails from here if I want I can send text messages I can do math
operations I can play a game on this computer if I want.
It doesn't really matter as long as I am able to send these files back to the browser so we can do that
with Python but we can do that with other languages like node like P. HP like Java.
So we can write a server in any type of language.
The only thing we can really do is on the browser side on the browser side we have to use these three
files because while at least in general terms it can only understand javascript which is another programming
language.
All right let's explore this topic a little bit more in the next video.